# Migrating from v3 to v4

The latest version, v4, of Source brings a big change to how the packages are structure. Previously, the `@guardian/src-foundations` package contained the fundemental elements of the design system (colors, spacing, typography) and a series of `@guardian/src-*` provided React components that following this system.

In v4, `@guardian/source-foundations` replaces `@guardian/src-foundations` as the place to get those fundemental elements and `@guardian/source-react-components` now provides all of the individual components from a single package.

We hope this will make it easier to consume and contribute to these packages!

## What else has changed?

Beyond the package changes, few other breaking changes have been made in an effort to keep migration as simple as possible, however some further changes were required. These are documented in the following places:

[Breaking changes to the foundations package](../packages/@guardian/source-foundations/migration-breaking-changes.md)

[Breaking changes to the component packages](../packages/@guardian/source-react-components/migration-breaking-changes.md)

## What will be different going forwards?

Going forwards the versions of `@guardian/source-foundations` and `@guardian/source-react-components` will no longer remain in sync. Instead, you should refer to the version specified in peerDependencies.

## How do I migrate?

### Automagically

A new eslint plugin is available which can be used to complete the migration automatically. This plugin also contains Source specific linting rules that are recommended for your project. The steps for automatic migration are:

-   Remove any `@guardian/src-*` packages from your `package.json`
-   Add the `@guardian/source-foundations` and/or `@guardian/source-react-components` packages, depending on your use requirements
-   Add the `@guardian/eslint-plugin-source` package as a devDependency
-   [Add the recommended plugin config to your eslint plugin](../packages/@guardian/eslint-plugin-source/README.md)
-   Run eslint with the [fix](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#fixing-problems) option

### Manually

It is recommended to follow the steps for [automatic migration](#automagically) however it is also possible to migrate manually. On the whole, migration involves updating import statements for `@guardian/src-*` to either `@guardian/source-foundations` or `@guardian/source-react-components`. Some further changes may be required in specific cases. More information in these can be found in the [What else has changed?](#what-else-has-changed) section.

The recommended manual steps are:

-   Remove any `@guardian/src-*` packages from your `package.json`
-   Add the `@guardian/source-foundations` and/or `@guardian/source-react-components` packages, depending on your use requirements
-   Search for all ocurrences of `@guardian/src-` and fix as required
